Finalize ADR-028 (#8398)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/architecture/adr-028-public-key-addresses.md

This lead to the first proposal (which we proved to be not good enough):
we take the first 20 bytes of the `sha256` hash of the public key we concatenated with the key bytes, summarized as `sha256(keyTypePrefix || keybytes)[:20]`.

### Review and Discussions

In [\#5694](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/5694) we discussed various solutions.
We agreed that 20 bytes it's not future proof, and extending the address length is the only way to allow addresses of different types, various signature types, etc.
This disqualifies the initial proposal.

In the issue we discussed various modifications:
+ Choice of the hash function.
+ Move the prefix out of the hash function: `keyTypePrefix || sha256(keybytes)[:20]` [post-hash-prefix-proposal].
+ Use double hashing: `sha256(keyTypePrefix || sha256(keybytes)[:20])`.
+ Increase to keybytes hash slice from 20 byte to 32 or 40 bytes. We concluded that 32 bytes, produced by a good hash functions is future secure.

### Requirements

> + Support currently used tools - we don't want to break an ecosystem, or add a long adaptation period.

Reviewer: Can this be more explicit? What tools in particular, is the goal here to just be keeping secp key formats as is?

Author: Mainly wallets or services which already relay on the current addresse. More details about this is at https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/8041 I will link it directly in the ADR.

### Requirements

+ Support currently used tools - we don't want to break an ecosystem, or add a long adaptation period. Ref: https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/8041
+ Try to keep the address length small - addresses are widely used in state, both as part of a key and object value.

### Scope

This ADR only defines a process for the generation of address bytes. For end-user interactions with addresses (through the API, or CLI, etc.), we still use bech32 to format these addresses as strings. This ADR doesn't change that.
Using bech32 for string encoding gives us support for checsum error codes and handling of user typos.

## Decision

We define the following account types, for which we define the address function:

1. simple accounts: represented by a regular public key (ie: secp256k1, sr25519)
2. naive multisig: accounts composed by other addressable objects (ie: naive multisig)
3. composed accounts with a native address key (ie: bls, group module accounts)
4. module accounts: basically any accounts which cannot sign transactions and which are managed internally by modules

### Legacy Public Key Addresses Don't Change

> Currently (Jan 2021), the only officially supported SDK user accounts are `secp256k1` basic accounts and legacy amino multisig.

Reviewer 2: we have ed25519 also, and the address is `sha256(pubkey)[:20]`

Author: the reason we want to push this ASAP is to not include ed25519 in legacy.

Author: NOTE, ed25519 are not supported by antehandler.

those public keys and their address formatting, and call them "legacy amino" multisig public keys
in protobuf. We will also create multisig public keys without amino addresses to be described below.

### Hash Function Choice

> We propose to use [blake2b](https://www.blake2.net/) as a hash function choice:

Reviewer 3: I'm personally supportive of `blake2b-256` for this purpose, but my impression at the last architecture call was that there will be a lot of opposition... not sure I want to pick this battle... But I guess if others change their mind, like I said I'm willing to support this.

Author: Yeah, I will not strongly defend it. If there will be opposition I will just change this section to `sha2`.
We already had lot of discussion about hashing. In general, we would like to have configurable hashing. But this won't work for account generation. We need to have single account generation, because lot tools (wallets, frameworks...) will relay on it.

So we need to select something long term. We won't afford changing it once it will be set.

Reviewer: > So we need to select something long term. We won't afford changing it once it will be set.

I strongly disagree with this sentiment. We will need to support using alternate hash functions for addresses unless we want to preclude having provability on addresses, which imo we should expect many chains to want, given what we see in Ethereum.

Reviewer 4: > I will just change this section to sha2.

If I recall correctly, in the last architecture call there was consensus on using _sha2_ for the time being. I feel like setting blake2 here would be perceived as we ignore the general consensus. Thus, I'm against setting `blake2b` as default.

Author: @ValarDragon - migrating addresses is pain in the ass because addresses are used in off-chain world as well. 
Also tools, wallets especially, will relay on a simple algorithm. It might be challenging for wallet providers to add customization for every comsmos chain. From user perspective, I would like to have a wallet (and other tools) which will work with all Cosmos SDK chains.

BTW: what do you want with  "_having provability on addresses_"?

Author: > I feel like setting blake2 here would be perceived as if we ignore the general consensus.

@alessio, Since then we got new arguments for using blake2b. We also were expressing a need for customizing  a  hash function "globally" for the whole SDK. Not sure if this is what @ValarDragon had in mind.
But if we will not reach a consensus then fine - we will stick with sha2.

Reviewer 4: OK! So til then I'd propose the following:

```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: > I strongly disagree with this sentiment. We will need to support using alternate hash functions for addresses unless we want to preclude having provability on addresses, which imo we should expect many chains to want, given what we see in Ethereum.

Can you explain a little bit more this use case @ValarDragon ?

This is about a standardized address generation algorithm. Nothing here would preclude any chain from generating addresses differently using a different hash algorithm for any key they wanted. But we're trying to standardize address generation in the SDK so yes I think it should be one hash function.

Reviewer 3: > If I recall correctly, in the last architecture call there was consensus on using sha2 for the time being. 

This was my understanding as well.

Reviewer 5: Can this be updated to `sha2`, as it seems that was the last consensus?

Author: updated to sha2

+ The main arguments are speed and separating from `sha256` which is widely used
  by miners and could potentially be used to find collisions.
+ The function was in the final round of the 2012 NIST hash function competition.
+ It's well studied with security covered in many academic papers.
+ Faster than `sha2` on non ASICs chipsets.
+ It's getting more traction in other blockchains (Pokadot, Sia, Zcash, ...). Related [zcash discussion](https://github.com/zcash/zcash/issues/706#issuecomment-187807410).
+ It's already widely supported by all major programming languages.
+ Cryptography consulting reviled no argument against `blake2b`

### Base Address Algorithm

We start with defining a base algorithm for generating addresses. Notably, it's used for Base Accounts (accounts represented by a single key-pair) addresses. For each Public Key schema we need to have an associated `typ` string, which we will discuss in a section below. `hash` is a cryptographic hash function defined in the previous section.

```go
const A_LEN = 32

func BaseAddress(typ string, pubkey []byte) []byte {

>     return hash(hash(typ) + pubkey)[:A_LEN]

Reviewer: Why not do a personalization string if the underlying hash supports it? 

Its also worth noting, that for efficiency, `hash(typ)` should ideally have length `block size` OR `size(hash(type) + pubkey) < 1 block size`

Author: I'm not sure I follow you:
* What do you mean with _ personalization string_?
* The returned bytes are capped at `A_LEN`. `hash` is defined in the section above. I specifically, didn't want to name it here -- in case we will edit it, we only need to change one place. 
* With `block size` - you mane a blockchain block size? That's totally different scale.

}
```

The `+` is a bytes concatenation, which doesn't use any separator.

This algorithm is an outcome after a consulting session with a cryptographer.
Motivation: this algorithm keeps the address relatively small (length of the `typ` doesn't impact on the length of the final address)
and it's more secure than [post-hash-prefix-proposal] (with reducing the pubkey hash to 20 bytes, we essentially significantly reduce the address space).
Moreover the cryptographer motivated the choice to add `typ` in the hash to protect against switch table attack.

### Canonical Address Format

We have three types of accounts we would like to create addresses for in the future:
- regular public key addresses for new signature algorithms (ex. `sr25519`).
- public key addresses for multisig public keys that don't use amino encoding
- module accounts: basically any accounts which cannot sign transactions and

> which are managed internally by modules

Reviewer 3: why is this deleted?

Author: I reworded it and moved it to the section above.

type Acc interface {
    Typ() string
    SubAccounts() []Acc
    ...

> }

Reviewer 3: We don't really have a structure like this and I don't think this is how we would do this.

How about just two functions `RootModuleAddress` and `DerivedModuleAddress`?

Author: I know. This is just an idea. We want an account to be able to:
+ present it's type (message name)
+ list subaccounts (possible empty - in that case it's reduced to a BaseAccount).

Author: This is a design for future accounts (including group module). This is not for a module account derivation mechanism as presented in ADR-033.

Reviewer 3: Let's discuss this live. I think there is some misunderstanding here. I'm not sure what's wrong with the original text other than changing the address length...

Author: This section is outdated and removed - as agreed we don't use an _account_ concept here.

type BaseAccount interface {
    Acc
    PubKey() crypto.PubKey
}

func Address(acc Acc) []byte {
    typ := acc.Typ()
    if acc is BaseAccount {
        return BaseAddress(typ, acc.PubKey())
    }

>     subacconts := acc.SubAcconts()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    subaccounts := acc.SubAccounts()
```

Example:

```proto
package cosmos.crypto.multisig;

message PubKey {
  uint32 threshold = 1;
  repeated google.protobuf.Any pubkeys = 2;
}
```

```go
func (multisig PubKey) Address() {
  // first gather all nested pub keys
  var keys []address.Addressable  // cryptotypes.PubKey implements Addressable
  for _, _key := range multisig.Pubkeys {
    keys = append(keys, key.GetCachedValue().(cryptotypes.PubKey))
  }

  // form the type from the message name (cosmos.crypto.multisig.PubKey) and the threshold joined together
  prefix := fmt.Sprintf("%s/%d", proto.MessageName(multisig), multisig.Threshold)

  // use the Composed function defined above
  return address.NewComposed(prefix, keys)
}
```

#### Module Account Addresses

NOTE: this section is not finalize and it's in active discussion.

In Basic Address section we defined a module account address as:

```
address.Hash("module", moduleName)
```

We use `"module"` as a schema type for all module derived addresses. Module accounts can have sub accounts. The derivation process has a defined order: module name, submodule, key, subsubmodule key.

> Module account addresses are heavily used in the SDK so it make sense to optimize the derivation process: instead of using of using `LengthPrefix` for the module name, we use a null byte (`'\x00'`) as a separator. This works, because null byte is not a part of a valid module name.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Module account addresses are heavily used in the SDK so it makes sense to optimize the derivation process: instead of using of using `LengthPrefix` for the module name, we use a null byte (`'\x00'`) as a separator. This works, because null byte is not a part of a valid module name.
```

```
func Module(moduleName string, key []byte) []byte{
	return Hash("module", []byte(moduleName) + 0 + key)
}
```

**Example**  A lending BTC pool address would be:
```
btcPool := address.Module("lending", btc.Addrress()})
```

If we want to create an address for a module account depending on more than one key, we can concatenate them:
```
btcAtomAMM := address.Module("amm", btc.Addrress() + atom.Address()})
```

We can continue the derivation process and can create an address for a submodule account.

```
func Submodule(address []byte, derivationKey []byte) {
    return Hash("module", address + derivationKey)
}
```

> NOTE: if `address` is not a hash based address (with `LEN` length) then we should use `LengthPrefix`. Alternative would be to use one `Module` function, which takes a slice of keys and mapped with `LenghtPrefix`. For final version we need to validate what's the most common use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: if `address` is not a hash based address (with `LEN` length) then we should use `LengthPrefix`. An alternative would be to use one `Module` function, which takes a slice of keys and mapped with `LengthPrefix`. For final version we need to validate what's the most common use.
```

**Example**  For a cosmwasm smart-contract address we could use the following construction:
```
smartContractAddr := Submodule(Module("cosmwasm", smartContractsNamespace), smartContractKey)
```

### Schema Types

A `typ` parameter used in `Hash` function SHOULD be unique for each account type.
Since all SDK account types are serialized in the state, we propose to use the protobuf message name string.

Example: all public key types have a unique protobuf message type similar to:

```proto
package cosmos.crypto.sr25519;

message PubKey {
  bytes key = 1;
}
```

All protobuf messages have unique fully qualified names, in this example `cosmos.crypto.sr25519.PubKey`.
These names are derived directly from .proto files in a standardized way and used
in other places such as the type URL in `Any`s. We can easily obtain the name using
`proto.MessageName(msg)`.

## Consequences

### Backwards Compatibility

> This ADR is compatible to what was committed and directly supported in the SDK repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This ADR is compatible with what was committed and directly supported in the SDK repository.
```

### Positive

- a simple algorithm for generating addresses for new public keys, complex accounts and modules

> - the algorithm generalizes for _native composed keys_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- the algorithm generalizes _native composed keys_
```

> - increase security and collision resistance of addresses

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- increased security and collision resistance of addresses
```

- the approach is extensible for future use-cases - one can use other address types, as long as they don't conflict with the address length specified here (20 or 32 bytes).
- support new account types.

### Negative

- addresses do not communicate key type, a prefixed approach would have done this
- addresses are 60% longer and will consume more storage space
- requires a refactor of KVStore store keys to handle variable length addresses

### Neutral

- protobuf message names are used as key type prefixes

## Further Discussions

Some accounts can have a fixed name or may be constructed in other way (eg: modules). We were discussing an idea of an account with a predefined name (eg: `me.regen`), which could be used by institutions.

> Without going into details, this kind of addresses are compatible with the hash based addresses described here as long as they don't have the same length.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Without going into details, these kinds of addresses are compatible with the hash based addresses described here as long as they don't have the same length.
```

> More specifically, any special account address, must not have length equal to 20 byte nor 32 bytes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More specifically, any special account address must not have a length equal to 20 or 32 bytes.
```

```go
const A_LEN = 32

func BaseAddress(typ string, key []byte) []byte {
    return hash(hash(typ) + key)[:A_LEN]
}
```

The `+` is a bytes concatenation, which doesn't use any separator.

This algorithm is an outcome from a consulting session with a cryptographer.
Motivation: this algorithm keeps the address relatively small (length of the `typ` doesn't impact on the length of the final address)
and it's more secure than [post-hash-prefix-proposal] (which uses first 20 bytes of a pubkey hash, that significantly reduce the address space).
Moreover the cryptographer motivated the choice to add `typ` in the hash to protect against switch table attack.

We use `BaseAddress` function for generating address for all accounts represented by a single key:
* simple public keys: `BaseAddress(keyType, pubkey)`
+ aggregated keys (eg: BLS): `BaseAddress(keyType, aggregatedPubKey)`

> + modules accounts: `BaseAddress("module", moduleKey)`

Reviewer 5: @aaronc so should "module" here actually be `moduleName` ? I think that @robert-zaremba's description here was that the prefix is the string "module", and `moduleKey` could be changed to `moduleName` to satisfy what you describe (not needing an actual `moduleKey`)

> + modules accounts: `BaseAddress("module", moduleKey)`

Author: Yes. I used `Key` suffix because the function argument is called `key` (which can be any generic _key_). I check ADR-33 - we use there `moduleID`. So how about using `moduleID` here as well?

  For module subaccount, or module specific content we append a specific key to the moduleKey:
  `BaseAddress("module", moduleKey+moduleSubaccountKey)`

> ### Composed Account Addresses

Reviewer 3: Please remove this section and consider reverting to the previous multisig format. As we discussed live generalizing multisig keys to composed addresses is a nice idea but doesn't work because there are too many specifics like threshold which isn't here.

Author: I reverted and merged the _Multisig Addresses_ section here. My motivation here is to show a generic function to compose pubkeys, and use multisig as an example. I think it's better to make this abstraction, rather than re-implement it in other account types.

Reviewer 3: Well even so, I don't think this is actually correct, the concatenated addresses each need to be length prefixed because they can be variable length. But otherwise, maybe it works...

Author: That's why we use `.Address()` function for all sub addresses - it will have the required logic. `Compose` is a one way function, there is nothing to decode.

Reviewer 3: Maybe my comment wasn't clear but we need to length prefix before concatenation because otherwise the boundary between addresses isn't clear

Author: Let me give more context. The motivation to have this section is to:
1. Show that we are not in the dead end and we have positive consequences of address composability (as outlined in the consequences section)
2. we have algorithm for that
3. new multisig is just an example, but the main topic is composition.

Reviewer 3: I think that's okay, I'm not there's another use case but it looks okay.

This is what I was trying to say: https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/pull/8398/files#r566337924

those public keys and their address formatting, and call them "legacy amino" multisig public keys
in protobuf. We will also create multisig public keys without amino addresses to be described below.

### Hash Function Choice

As in other parts of the Cosmos SDK, we will use `sha256`.

### Simple Account Address

We start with defining a hash base algorithm for generating addresses. Notably, it's used for accounts represented by a single key pair. For each public key schema we have to have an associated `typ` string, which we are discussing in a section below. `hash` is a cryptographic hash function defined in the previous section.

```go

> const A_LEN = 32

Reviewer 2: What's not clear to me is if `A_LEN` is constant for all simple account addresses, or if it depends on `typ`. I can imagine introducing in the future some pk schemes with different public key sizes.

Author: It doesn't depend on `typ`. `A_LEN` is a length of all `Hash` based addresses.

func Hash(typ string, key []byte) []byte {
    return hash(hash(typ) + key)[:A_LEN]
}
```

The `+` is a bytes concatenation, which doesn't use any separator.

This algorithm is an outcome from a consulting session with a cryptographer.
Motivation: this algorithm keeps the address relatively small (length of the `typ` doesn't impact on the length of the final address)
and it's more secure than [post-hash-prefix-proposal] (which uses first 20 bytes of a pubkey hash, that significantly reduce the address space).
Moreover the cryptographer motivated the choice to add `typ` in the hash to protect against switch table attack.

We use `address.Hash` function for generating address for all accounts represented by a single key:
* simple public keys: `address.Hash(keyType, pubkey)`
+ aggregated keys (eg: BLS): `address.Hash(keyType, aggregatedPubKey)`

> + module accounts: `addoress.Hash("module", moduleID)`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ module accounts: `address.Hash(moduleName, nil)`
```

Author: why you want to have a `moduleName` as a type? I think it make more sense to put is a key.

Author: The reason, why I think it makes more sense to put a variable moduleName / moduleID as a `key` argument is the design intuition: 
* type (the first argument) is a schema description (eg: `ed25519`, `schnorr2of4`, ....).
* key (the last argument) is a random sequence.

Reviewer 3: So here you're trying to hedge against the possibility of the module name as the schema description causing weird side effects?

Author: `moduleName` is not a schema type - so passing it as a first argument there doesn't match our definition.

Reviewer 3: Well it is sort of a schema type in that all of the `group` addresses or `cosmwasm` addresses define their own sub-address format.

Are there any pros/cons from a security perspective of `address.Hash(moduleName, moduleSubKey)` vs `address.Hash("module", moduleName + moduleSubKey)`?

`address.Hash(moduleName, moduleSubKey)` was the original design and still makes sense to me for simplicity's sake...

Author: The issue would be if a user is in control of `moduleName`. He is not - only an app developer is. 
So we need to be careful to not have a moduleName same as any scheme name (eg: `ed25519`). 
I don't see any security concern for `address.Hash("module", moduleName + moduleSubKey)` except the weird conflicts on concatenation (same as in multisig example) - which is solveable with length prefixing.

Reviewer 3: Ah, yes... So what about `address.Hash("module:" + moduleName, moduleSubKey)`

Reviewer 6: > So we need to be careful to not have a moduleName same as any scheme name (eg: `ed25519`).

Insecure modules (either explicit or negligent) is a much larger independent discussion.  Objectively I don't see the value in the "module" prefix given the context here (module name + module provided sub-keys as components of the address, sourced from the module).

Author: I created a new section for module sub-accounts.

  For module subaccount, or module specific content we append a specific key to the moduleKey:

>   `address.Hash("module", moduleSubaccountKey)`  (note: `moduleSubaccountKey` already composes the `modleKey`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  `address.Hash(moduleName, moduleSubaccountKey)`
```

Author: I assumed here that `moduleSubaccountKey` is already a composed key. If so, then we don't need to use `moduleName`.

### Composed Account Addresses

For simple composed accounts (like new naive multisig), we generalize the `address.Hash`. The address is constructed by recursively creating addresses for the sub accounts, sorting the addresses and composing it into a single address. It ensures that the ordering of keys doesn't impact the created address.

```go
// We don't need a PubKey interface - we need anything which is addressable.
type Addressable interface {
    Address() []byte
}

func Composed(typ string, subaccounts []Addressable) []byte {
    addresses = map(subaccounts, \a -> a.Address())
    addresses = sort(addresses)

>     return address.Hash(typ, addresses[0] + ... + addresses[n])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    return address.Hash(typ, LengthPrefixAddress(addresses[0]) + ... + LengthPrefixAddress(addresses[n]))
```

Reviewer 3: Without length prefixing each address here you don't know the boundary. The addresses could be 20 or 32 bytes or some other number of users choose. So you can't successfully compose without that. Otherwise, there could be some weird collisions however unlikely.

Author: `Composed` is a one-way function - once hashed, we can't go back. We don't need to know boundaries - finding a collision with length prefixing is as hard as finding a collision without them. We can map `LengthPrefixAddress` to all sub addresses, but I don't see any justification for that. Meaning it obfuscates the code but it doesn't enhance the security.

Author: So, practically speaking, the only way we could get a collision is when we have to sequence of addresses which concatenate to the same string:
```
as, bs [][]byte <- list of addresses
```
Question: is it harder to find 2 different list of addresses (as != bs) for having a match in A or in B?
```
A:  as[0]+as[1]+...+as[n] =? bs[0]+bs[1]+...+bs[m]
B:  lenpref(as[0])+lenpref(as[1])+...+lenpref(as[n]) =? lenpref(bs[0])+lenpref(bs[1])+...+lenpref(bs[m])
```
so, let think...

Author: Each problem can be solved by a construction: we map and concatenate. Then for constructing `bs` we try to slice the concatenate sequence just before some `1` bits. 
Specifically, for problem `B`, here is an example of conflicting addresses in binary form:
```
as = {0101, 1000, 1}
bs = {00, 10 1000  11}
map(lenpref, as) = {10 0  100,  10 1000, 11  }
map(lenpref, as) = {10 0, 100   10 1000  11 }
```

Author: I was thinking more about it. Since the length prefix is always 1 byte, then we can't construct conflicting address sequences unless the individual addresses are the same - so the `lenpref` in this case will work. 
Other solution I had in mind was to hash each subaddress before concatenation - this way all parts have exactly same length.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, the collision risk may be small but length-prefixing is cheap and ensures zero collisions in the pre-image.

Author: @aaronc , yes, in OP, when you wrote about collision I thought you are writing about hash collision ;) In the (updated) text I use _conflict_ instead of _collision_.

}
```

> The `typ` parameter should contain all significant attributes with deterministic serialization.

Reviewer 2: This ADR should also define the `typ` for all existing keys in the SDK, right? If the previous iteration, i believe `typ := proto.MessageName(pk)`. If we're keeping that, it would be good to mention it.

Author: It's defined in the sections below.

- the algorithm generalizes for _native composed keys_
- increase security and collision resistance of addresses
- the approach is extensible for future use-cases - one can use other address types, as long as they don't conflict with the address length specified here (20 or 32 bytes).
- support multiple types accounts.

### Negative

- addresses do not communicate key type, a prefixed approach would have done this
- addresses are 60% longer and will consume more storage space
- requires a refactor of KVStore store keys to handle variable length addresses

### Neutral

- protobuf message names are used as key type prefixes

## Further Discussions

Some accounts can have a fixed name or may be constructed in other way (eg: module accounts). We were discussing an idea of an account with a predefined name (eg: `me.regen`), which could be used by institutions.
Without going into details, this kind of addresses are compatible with the hash based addresses described here as long as they don't have the same length.
More specifically, any special account address, must not have length equal to 20 byte nor 32 bytes.

## References

> * [Notes](https://hackmd.io/_NGWI4xZSbKzj1BkCqyZMw) from consulting meeting with [Alan Szepieniec](https://scholar.google.be/citations?user=4LyZn8oAAAAJ&hl=en).

Reviewer 6: Could these notes be added as another document directly in the repository?  These seem like an important piece of context to preserve in association with this ADR and it isn't clear that hackmd will preserve this record with the same retention as the source repository.

Author: OK, so how about adding it here, as an _Appendix_ section?

Author: done

```go
const A_LEN = 32

func Hash(typ string, key []byte) []byte {
    return hash(hash(typ) + key)[:A_LEN]
}
```

The `+` is a bytes concatenation, which doesn't use any separator.

This algorithm is an outcome from a consulting session with a cryptographer.
Motivation: this algorithm keeps the address relatively small (length of the `typ` doesn't impact on the length of the final address)
and it's more secure than [post-hash-prefix-proposal] (which uses first 20 bytes of a pubkey hash, that significantly reduce the address space).
Moreover the cryptographer motivated the choice to add `typ` in the hash to protect against switch table attack.

We use `address.Hash` function for generating address for all accounts represented by a single key:
* simple public keys: `address.Hash(keyType, pubkey)`
+ aggregated keys (eg: BLS): `address.Hash(keyType, aggregatedPubKey)`

> + module accounts: `addoress.Hash("module", moduleName)`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ module accounts: `address.Hash("module", moduleName)`
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
module sub-accounts: `address.Hash("module", concat(moduleName, moduleSubKey)`
```

Author: This is case is discussed in the _Composed Address_ and use `Compose` function. Here I'm showing a simple module address.

> ### Composed Account Addresses

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Composed Addresses
```

I'd prefer removing the word "account" everywhere. It's confusing IMHO

  bytes key = 1;
}
```

All protobuf messages have unique fully qualified names, in this example `cosmos.crypto.sr25519.PubKey`.
These names are derived directly from .proto files in a standardized way and used
in other places such as the type URL in `Any`s. Since there is an easy and obvious
way to get this name for every protobuf type, we can use this message name as the

> key type `prefix` when creating addresses. For all basic public keys, `contents`

Author: Yes, I've updated and simplified it.

should just be the raw unencoded public key bytes.

### Named Accounts

Some accounts can have a fixed name. We were discussing an idea of an account with a predefined name (eg: `me.regen`), this could be used by institutions or modules.
Without going into details, this kind of addresses are compatible with the hash based addresses discussed here as long as they don't conflict with the same length.

> More specifically, any special account, with custom naming, must not have length equal 20 byte nor 32 bytes.

Reviewer 3: I think this is out of scope

Author: OK, should we remove it or just add it as a note in a (new) section _Further Discussions_?

Author: I simplified this a bit and move d to further discussion.

### Module Addresses

> TODO

Reviewer 5: What is our general strategy for generating module accounts? Is this intended to be articulated in this PR, or will it come in a follow-up at a later date?

Author: We will need to update it. We are working on it: https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/8041#issuecomment-736627111

Author: I described it in the _Simple Account Address_ section

## Consequences

### Positive

- a simple algorithm for generating addresses for new public keys, complex accounts and module accounts
- the algorithm generalizes for _native composed keys_
- increase security and collision resistance of addresses
- the approach is extensible for future use-cases - one can use other address types, as long as they don't conflict with the address length specified here (20 or 32 bytes).
- support multiple types accounts.

### Negative

- addresses do not communicate key type, a prefixed approach would have done this

> - addresses are 60% longer and will consume more storage space

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- addresses are 60% longer and will consume more storage space
- requires a refactor of KVStore store keys to handle variable length addresses
```
